Substance Designer notes-----------------------------------


node documentation:
https://support.allegorithmic.com/documentation/display/SDDOC/Node+Library




keyboard shortcuts --

collapse node to parent			[d key]

duplicate w/o connections		[ctrl+ shft+ d]

drag inputs to another node		[shft+ left mouse drag]



autosave		if setup; files are located in the project folder.
				remember to resave to the original file after opening the backup

	

views --------------

view outputs in 3d view		-rt click empty graph area (context menu)


load 3d mesh		-drag-drop it into explorer resource folder
				
				
				
				


				
				
				
				
			

		








shapes -------------


Shape node
	Extremely straight forward with its Atlas Map of shapes to choose from. However,
	this will probably be Node that starts most Substances. Pretty much any shape in
	the world can be made with a combination of Blend Nodes and Shape Nodes!


shape mapper		-add segments, add inner radius, width, rotation


Tile Generator
	Don’t’ take the name of this Node too literally. Its good at making Tiles, but it’s
	really good at taking the Shape Node and making it Tile. This Node is a good
	building block for anything that needs some repetition.







transform ----------

transform node		-

distance node		-






blur ---------------

Slope Blur Greyscale	
	Directional blur driven by greyscale slope map
	general usage: 	increase samples
	decrease intensity
	mode: min
	
	
Blur IQ greyscale
	Performs a High-Quality gaussian blur on the result. Much better quality than the standard atomic box blur.



edge blur
	This mask highlights edges based on a baked curvature map
	

	
	


edges --------------

Bevel node

Edge Detect
	The name is pretty self-explanatory on this one. Edge Detect will look at the
	Parent Node being plugged into it, and will generate lines around contrasting
	values. This Node is good at creating lines for Tile Grout, among other things.

	

shape stroke greyscale
	Draw a line around or inside a shape
										
Shape drop shadow
	Draw a shadow behind a shape

shape glow greyscale
	Draw a color light around or inside a shape

Edge Damages
	This mask represents damage done to raised, convex edges based on curvature 
	and baked AO

Edge Dirt
	This mask represents a dirt effect that accumulates around edges, 
	based solely on a curvature map

Edge Notch
	This mask represents a simple mask for raised edges, 
	broken up by a high-frequency noise.

Edge Select
	This mask is the best way to select any kind of edge based on the curvature.
	
Edge Speckle
	This mask represents edges with a slight speckle added to break them up.
	
Edge Wear
	This node represents wear on object edges.
	
Fiber Glass Edge Wear
	Represents a mask specifically intended for a fibreglass-type of wear, 
	could perhaps be used for cloth

	
	
	
	
	
		
height -------------

Normal to Height node	-never be able to provide a 100% correct result, as information is lost. good for simple details.










normal -------------

From Height:
	Height to Normal node	(world units)
		Useful for when you know your source Heightmap's dimensions and want to perform the most accurate conversion, such as when working with scanned material.
	
	Normal Sobel
		Converts a Heightmap input to a Normalmap output.

Combining:
	Normal Blend
		blend two Normalmaps together with an optional mask
		not intended for combining (overlaying) Normalmaps, where the top map adds detail to the bottom map. For that, use Normal Combine instead.

	Normal Combine
		combines the details of two Normalmaps in a mathematically correct way.
		This is the best and most correct way to add 2D-generated Normalmap details to a baked map.
		If you want to blend two Normalmaps without combining their details (using a mask, for example), you should use Normal Blend.

Repair:
	Normal Normalize
		Performs a mathematical vector normalisation operation on every single pixel in the image.
		Useful for when a lot of blending and modifications have been made to the Normalmap, and you want to ensure a correct result gets exported.

	
	
	
	

channels -----------

channels shuffle	-mix rgba values between inputs 1 and 2

channels mixer		-adjust rgb values of 1 input










convert ------------

color to greyscale	-Grayscale conversion node (right click 'add node' menu)

greyscale to color	-gradient node

vector to bitmap	-SVG node. use pen tool in 2d graph view to draw mask input image.

---- to vector		-normal map as vector image input for effects (warping)






adjust color / greyscale values

levels node


curve node
	double click to add a point
	alt left click break bezier curve



greyscale:
Histogram Scan	
	remap the contrast and brightness of input grayscale images. Can be used to "grow" and "shrink" masks in dynamic ways.		
	Plug any Grey Scale Node into this guy, and it will
	slowly let you pull values back into the Node. This can give all kinds of crazy
	results that would be unexpected, and allow for small details to be added easily
	to the chain! Best way to understand the Histogram Scan is to start plugging
	other Nodes into and see what comes from it!
	
histogram shift
	shifts the whole range of the image, wrapping around when reaching range limits.





opacity ------------

create opacity map:
>	right click, add node, (opacity) output
>	create channels shuffle node (connect to opacity output)
>	create uniform color node. black and input to channels node for (transparent) background.
>	set alpha channel on channels to uniform color alpha channel input 
>	change r,g,&b inputs to while alpha channels from image input





noise --------------

Splatter
	Most people mistake this Node for “Scatter”, because that’s what it does really
	well. It can take a Shape Node and randomly scatter it around. This can be
	exceptionally helpful when trying to break the Procedural look of certain Nodes.

Clouds
	One of the many “Noise” Nodes, but one of my favorites. There are three
	variations, all with a different look and feel. They however give a good organic
	feel to a lot of noise and distortion.

Perlin Noise
	Another Noise Node that has a few variations. My favorite is the Perlin Noise
	Zoom, as it gives a little more control over how the Noise looks and acts.











dynamic functions --

create new function:
>	in the main graph (root) options create an input parameter
>	back in the node; click dropdown on a parameter you need to create a function for and select 'empty function' (click again or select 'edit' to open the graph
>	in the fuction graph, map this button to an input node (ex. variables\get boolean)
>	after defining the function, right click output last node in graph and 'set as output node'


system variables:

'$' denotes system variables




swizzle
get access to each channel of a node and reorganize them into x, y, z variables
	usage: 
	Just choose the swizzle node corresponding to the output you wnat to get.
	Plug a relevant node into it
	adjust the parameters according to your needs (ie. invert the x and y channel:



sample color	-sample color per pixel






switch -------------

switch				Returns either Input 1 or Input 2 based on the Switch parameter setting.
switch greyscale	


multi switch		Returns 1 input from multiple. exposed as a drop down list.
mulit switch greyscale


control another property with a switch
>	expose a function that will control this property
>	now give the property a constant value and open it in a graph editor
if else function:
>	two constant float values, an if/else node, and a 'variables get boolean'
>	in the variables get boolean node properties, set the bool to the exposed funtion 
>	set if/else as output node





outputs ------------

Add an output node:
	Right-click in an empty area; Add Node --> Output
	attributes pane: click "Add item" plus sign & Specify a Usage.  (ie. "AmbientOcclusion")
	change the label and indentifier

	
ambient occlustion:
>	add an ambient occlusion node
>	add a levels adjust node to input

curvature:
>	curvature smooth or curvature sorbel taking input from normal map






creating a preset graph template

>	edit> preferences> projects> general tab> templates directories
>	add new











errors -------------

export cooking fail (error 13)
enable output computation in current graph settings
